---
layout: post
title: "about me"
category: personal
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Sam Khawase, Programmer and soldier of fortune. 
( *Pronunced as KhavSay* ) 

I was born in the rustic lands of Central India with cotton fields and Orange orchards.

I caught the Linux bug as an undergrad student at Government College of Engineering and soon became the go-to guy for all Linux queries in college. I started the Linux Users Group and helped create the Linux Lab.

While still in college, I was handpicked by an US based entrepreneur to develop a Traders Message Board for NASDAQ traded stocks. As a integral part of the team, I designed and implemented the system which brought laurels to the institute.

My professional career began with Cognizant Technology as a programmer Analyst. I've solved problems on diverse platforms like Mainframes, iSeries and Enterprise Java. The years I spent in trenches designing, coding and implementing enterprise applications have honed my skills as a developer. Working with a diverse team spread across timezones and continents have taught me a things or two about software development.

I explore cutting edge technologies like MongoDB, Play framework, python and Google Go. The open source projects help me get insights to better code. I run a minimal linux distro in VirtualBox running on top of Windows 7 on my lenovo ideapad.

I am an avid cylist, fitness freak, love music ( _Bollywood, Indian classical, Rock and folk_ ) and can't be far from books. 
I love to travel and feel at peace in the prairies of Midwest where I am stationed currently.