---
layout: post
title: "Resume"
category: personal
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


# Saurabh Khawase

 * <sam.khawse@gmail.com>
 * <http://github.com/samkhawse>
 * 515-822-7292

## Background

A graduate of Government College of Engineering (Computer Science), I am a software developer with an interest in communication and design. I am a big believer in experimenting with new things to expand my knowledge both professionally and recreationally. I strive to be a quick learner and both a competent leader and capable worker. In my free time I enjoy hiking, reading and listening to music.

## Education

Bachelor of Engineering (*Computer Science 2001 - 2005*)                           
Government College of Engineering, Amravati, India

## Systems Proficiency

* Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, JSP, SQL, python, XML 

* Frameworks: Java EE 5 and 6, Spring Framework, Play! Framework 

* RDBMS/ Databases: IBM DB2, Oracle 10g, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB 

* Web Technologies: JSP, Servlets, XML, taglibs, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3 

* API’s: Servlets, EJB, JNDI, Hibernate, JDBC, JPA, JavaPOS, WSDL, DOM, SAX, DTD, XSD, SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, XSL/XSLT 

* Tools/Others: Eclipse, NetBeans, JUnit, Oracle SQL Developer, Git, Subversion, Apache Maven, Ant, log4j, SQLite. 

* Operating systems: Linux, Microsoft Windows family, IBM AS/400. 

* Design Patterns: Singleton, Observer, Builder, Factory method, Strategy, Business Delegates.

**Software**

I have experience using most modern development tools including Eclipse, Git and SVN. I have been using Linux for both personal and server use since 2002. 

## Experience

**Cognizant Technology Solutions, Des Moines, IA**                           
*(Associate, Projects - July 2005 to Oct. 2011)*

Worked on multiple enterprise Java applications interacting with clients spanning across time zones and continents. Designed, developed and implemented enhancements to mission-critical applications for businesses in retail domain. Designed and implemented a mission critical project resulting significant profit to the business. Worked on a crucial legacy migration project with a major role in backend design and development. Provided production support and data fixes in a timely manner mainly to warehouse and call center applications thereby minimizing downtime. Developed and supported Unix shell scripts for backend processing.


**Advanced Technologies Solutions, West Des Moines, IA**                           
*(Systems Engineer - October 2011 to Current)*

As a System engineer, developed multiple enhancements for Case Management Offender Network project. Contributed to all phases of the software development with a major role in designing and coding. Assessed the project direction through the development cycle using agile methodologies. Lead developer for Enterprise Java applications for critical information exchange between jurisdictions and private agencies. Active role in client interaction for requirement gathering, designing, writing functional specifications. Extensively worked on SQL server database implementing ORM and RDBMS concepts, writing views, stored procedures and user defined functions. 
 

