---
layout: post
title: "Resume"
category: personal
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


# Saurabh Khawase

 * sam (dot) khawse (at) gmail (dot) com
 * <http://github.com/samkhawse>

## Background

A graduate of Government College of Engineering (Computer Science), I am a software developer with an interest in communication and design. I've lived on 3 <sup>1/2</sup> continents and worked with diverse teams featuring 20+ nationalities and multiple time zones. I am a big believer in experimenting with new things to expand my knowledge both professionally and recreationally. I strive to be a quick learner and both a competent leader and capable worker. In my free time I enjoy hiking, reading and music.

## Education

Bachelor of Engineering (*Computer Science 2001 - 2005*)                           
Government College of Engineering, Amravati, India

## Systems Proficiency

* Programming Languages: Java, Objective-C, C#, XAML, JSP, SQL, python, ruby. 

* Frameworks: iOS framework (iPhone/iPad), Core Data, SQLite, Windows Phone 8.1, Calabash, KIF, Kiwi, Push notification service, Facebook SDK, Google SDK, Google Analytics, Java EE, Spring Framework.  

* RDBMS/ Databases: IBM DB2, Oracle 10g, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB 

* Web Technologies: JSP, Servlets, flask, nginx, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3.

* API’s: RESTful API concepts, Servlets, EJB, JNDI, Hibernate, JDBC, JPA. 

* Tools/Others: XCode, AppCode, VS 2013, Eclipse, Git/Gitlab, Cocoapods, Nuget, JUnit, Oracle SQL Developer, Git, Subversion, Apache Maven, Ant, log4j, SQLite. 

* Operating systems: Linux, Microsoft Windows family, IBM AS/400. 

* Design Patterns: KVO, Delegate, Event Aggregator, MVVM, MVC, Singleton, Observer, Builder, Factory method, Strategy, Business Delegates.

**Software**

I have experience using most modern development tools including Eclipse, Git and SVN. I have been using Linux for both personal and server use since 2002. I use a Mac currently in office for iOS and java programming.

## Experience
**Visual Meta GmbH, Berlin, DE**                           
*(Full-Stack Mobile App Developer - October 2012 to Current)*

Lead developer for the iOS and Windows Phone App app for Ladenzeile.de and shopalike.com.

* Prototyped and developed the ShopAlike/Ladenzeile iOS app, using Mediator, MVC, delegate pattern and Git.
* Created reusable UI components for faster development in Objective-C.
* Designed the in app data and image caching policy using CoreData.
* Designed and implemented the backend API server in Java.
* Implemented unit and acceptance testing frameworks (Kiwi and Calabash).
* Implemented app analytics using Google analytics, Facebook SDK and inhouse tracking application.
* Prototyped and developed the ShopAlike/Ladenzeile Window Phone app, using MVVM pattern, C# and Git.
* Designed the app UI using XAML and C#.
* Designed the in app data and image caching policy using Isolated Storage.
* Designed and implemented the backend API server in Java.
* Implemented app analytics using Google analytics, Facebook SDK and inhouse tracking application.


**Advanced Technologies Solutions, West Des Moines, IA**                           
*(Systems Engineer - October 2011 to October 2012)*

As a System engineer, developed multiple enhancements for Case Management Offender Network project. Contributed to all phases of the software development with a major role in designing and coding. Assessed the project direction through the development cycle using agile methodologies. Lead developer for Enterprise Java applications for critical information exchange between jurisdictions and private agencies. Active role in client interaction for requirement gathering, designing, writing functional specifications. Extensively worked on SQL server database implementing ORM and RDBMS concepts, writing views, stored procedures and user defined functions. 


**Cognizant Technology Solutions, Des Moines, IA**                           
*(Associate, Projects - July 2005 to Oct. 2011)*

Worked on multiple enterprise Java applications interacting with clients spanning across time zones and continents. Designed, developed and implemented enhancements to mission-critical applications for businesses in retail domain. Designed and implemented a mission critical project resulting significant profit to the business. Worked on a crucial legacy migration project with a major role in backend design and development. Provided production support and data fixes in a timely manner mainly to warehouse and call center applications thereby minimizing downtime. Developed and supported Unix shell scripts for backend processing.



 

