---
layout: post
title: "about me"
category: personal
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Sam Khawase, Programmer

*(My last name is pronounced as KhavSay)*

I was born in the rustic lands of Central India with its Cotton fields and Orange orchards.

I caught the Linux bug as an undergrad student and soon became the go-to guy for all Linux queries in college. I started the Linux Users Group and helped create the Linux Lab.

While still in college, I was handpicked by an US based entrepreneur to develop a Traders Message Board for NASDAQ. As a integral part of the team, I designed and implemented the system which generated a great revenue and brought laurels to the institute.

My professional career began with Cognizant Technology as a programmer Analyst. I've solved problems on diverse platforms like Mainframes, iSeries and Enterprise Java. The years I spent in trenches designing, coding and implementing enterprise applications have honed my skills as a developer. Working with a diverse team spread across timezones and continents have made me an expert in software development.

I moved to Berlin in 2012 to get a firsthand experience of the exciting world of European startups. I changed tracks to become an iOS developer and created the Ladenzeile iOS and Windows Phone apps. These apps are one of the top rated apps in their respective categories with 250000+ installs. The exciting world of mobile technologies with its rapidly changing landscape fuels my curiosity and encourages me to explore new frontiers.

In my life outside my work, I explore cutting edge technologies like OpenStreetMap API, Flask, Docker/Vagrant, Ansible and Websockets. The open source projects help me get insights to better code.

In a nutshell, I am a hardworking, skilled professional with a proven track record, looking for an opportunity to work with a great team.